{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red107\green0\blue109;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh7800\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li336\ri572\sa80\qc

\f0\b\fs42 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Smiley Lore\'a0\'a0 :-)\
\pard\pardeftab720\li336\ri572\sa0\qc
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www-2.cs.cmu.edu/~sef"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0\fs38 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Scott E. Fahlman}}
\f1\b0\fs38 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li336\ri572\sa0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'a0\
A lot of people have asked me about this, so I thought I\'92d put the information here, linked under my {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www-2.cs.cmu.edu/~sef/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 home page}}:\
\'a0\
Yes, I am the inventor of the sideways \'93smiley face\'94 (sometimes called an \'93emoticon\'94) that is commonly used in E-mail, chat, and newsgroup posts.\'a0 Or at least I\'92m 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 one
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0  of the inventors.\
\'a0\
By the early 1980\'92s, the Computer Science community at Carnegie Mellon was making heavy use of online bulletin boards or \'93bboards\'94.\'a0 These were a precursor of today\'92s newsgroups, and they were an important social mechanism in the department \'96 a place where faculty, staff, and students could discuss the weighty matters of the day on an equal footing.\'a0 Many of the posts were serious: talk announcements, requests for information, and things like \'93I\'92ve just found a ring in the fifth-floor men\'92s room.\'a0 Who does it belong to?\'94\'a0 Other posts discussed topics of general interest, ranging from politics to abortion to campus parking to keyboard layout (in increasing order of passion).\'a0 Even in those days, extended \'93flame wars\'94 were common.\
\'a0\
Given the nature of the community, a good many of the posts were humorous (or attempted humor).\'a0 The problem was that if someone made a sarcastic remark, a few readers would fail to get the joke, and each of them would post a lengthy diatribe in\'a0 response.\'a0 That would stir up more people with more responses, and soon the original thread of the discussion was buried.\'a0 In at least one case, a humorous remark was interpreted by someone as a serious safety warning.\
\'a0\
This problem caused some of us to suggest (only half seriously) that maybe it would be a good idea to explicitly mark posts that were not to be taken seriously.\'a0\'a0 After all, when using text-based online communication, we lack the body language or tone-of-voice cues that convey this information when we talk in person or on the phone.\'a0 Various \'93joke markers\'94\'a0 were suggested, and in the midst of that discussion it occurred to me that the character sequence :-) would be an elegant solution \'96 one that could be handled by the ASCII-based\'a0 computer terminals of the day.\'a0 So I suggested that.\'a0 In the same post, I also suggested the use of\'a0 :-(\'a0 to indicate that a message was meant to be taken seriously, though that symbol quickly evolved into a marker for displeasure, frustration, or anger.\
\'a0\
This convention caught on quickly around Carnegie Mellon, and soon spread to other universities and research labs via the primitive computer networks of the day.\'a0 (Some CMU alumni who had moved on to other places continued to read our bboards as a way of keeping in touch with their old community.)\
\'a0\
Within a few months, we started seeing the lists with dozens of \'93smilies\'94: open-mouthed surprise, person wearing glasses, Abraham Lincoln, Santa Claus, the pope, and so on.\'a0 Producing such clever compilations has become a serious hobby for some people.\'a0 But only my two original smilies, plus the \'93winky\'94\'a0 ;-)\'a0 and the \'93noseless\'94 variants seem to be in common use for actual communication.\'a0 It\'92s interesting to note that Microsoft and AOL now intercept these character strings and turn them into little pictures.\'a0 Personally, I think this destroys the whimsical element of the original.\
\'a0\
Unfortunately, I didn\'92t keep a copy of my original post.\'a0 It didn\'92t seem like a big deal at the time.\'a0 By the time I realized that this smiley-face phenomenon was going to be long-lasting and that it would spread around the world as the Internet grew, it was too late to easily retrieve the post, and the original message was lost for many years.\
\'a0\
Several attempts to find the post on old backup tapes were unsuccessful.\'a0 But in 2001-2002 Mike Jones of Microsoft sponsored a more serious \'93archeological dig\'94 through our ancient backup tapes.\'a0 Jeff Baird and\'a0 the CMU CS facilities staff put in a heroic effort with the support and encouragement of Howard Wactlar, Bob Cosgrove, and David Livingston.\'a0 They found the proper tapes, located a working tape drive that could read the ancient media, decoded the old formats, and did a lot of searching to find the actual posts.\'a0 I am most grateful to all who participated in this successful quest, which I call the \'93Digital Coelacanth Project.\'94\
\'a0\
So the message itself, and the thread that gave rise to it, are {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www-2.cs.cmu.edu/~sef/Orig-Smiley.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 here}}.\'a0 The exact date of the smiley\'92s birth can now be determined: 19 September, 1982.\'a0 It was great to have this message back just in time for the 20
\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\super \outl0\strokewidth0 th
\fs38 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\nosupersub \outl0\strokewidth0  anniversary of the original post.\
\'a0\
As you can see, the note in which I suggested this thing was quite short and casual \'96 just part of an ongoing discussion that involved many people.\'a0 I apparently didn\'92t even read it over before posting, since a word or two were dropped in editing.\'a0 I do remember writing a longer message in which I explained the need for a humor-marker in more detail, and suggested the :-) symbol, along with :-( to indicate anger or real unhappiness.\'a0 But this longer message must have come later \'96 perhaps a later bboardpost or an E-mail message that I sent to someone.\'a0 In any case, that more detailed post did not turn up in our search.\
\'a0\
Many people have denounced the very idea of the smiley face, pointing out that good writers should have no need to explicitly label their humorous comments.\'a0 Shakespeare and Jonathan Swift and Mark Twain got along just fine without this.\'a0 And by labeling the remarks that are not meant to be taken seriously, we spoil the joke.\'a0 In satirical writing, half the fun is in never being quite sure whether the author is serious or not.\
\'a0\
To a large degree, I agree with these critics.\'a0 Perhaps the E-mail smiley face has done more to degrade our written communication than to improve it.\'a0 But in defense of the idea, let me say two things:\
\'a0\
First, not all people who post on boards have the literary skill of\'a0 Shakespeare or Twain, and even those luminaries had bad days.\'a0 If Shakespeare were tossing off a quick note complaining about the lack of employee parking spaces near the Globe Theater, he might have produced the same kind of sloppy prose that the rest of us do.\'a0 Besides, Shakespeare\'92s work is full of clich\'e9s and his spelling was atrocious.\'a0 :-)\
\'a0\
Second, and more important, these authors were publishing their words in a different medium, with different properties.\'a0 If 100,000 copies of\'a0 a novel or an essay were distributed in printed form, and if 1% of the readers didn\'92t get the joke and were outraged at what they had read, there was nothing these clueless readers could do to spoil the enjoyment of the other 99%.\'a0 But if it were possible for each of the 1000 clueless readers to write a lengthy counter-argument and to flood these into the same distribution channels as the original work, and if others could then jump into the fray in similar fashion, you can see the problems that this would cause.\'a0 If the judicious use of a few smilies can reduce the frequency of such firestorms, then maybe it\'92s not such a bad idea after all.\'a0 Again, we\'92re talking here about casual writing on the Internet, not great works printed in a one-way medium that is relatively inaccessible to the general public.\
\'a0\
One final point:\'a0 I\'92ve seen various claims that the sideways smiley face, built from ASCII characters, was invented by someone else.\'a0 I believe that I invented this particular glyph and the \'93turn your head to one side\'94 principle 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 independently
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 .\'a0 I don\'92t recall seeing anything like this before my 1982 post, though a few messages in the thread we just located come close.\'a0 Leonard Hamey\'92s post suggesting (#) for humor might be taken as an example of \'93turn your head to one side\'94 \'96 it\'92s not really clear if that was his intent \'96 and apparently \\__/ was used by one of our research groups to indicate a smile.\'a0\
\'a0\
Some people have told me that the :-) or :)\'a0 convention was used by teletype operators in the old days.\'a0 Maybe so.\'a0 Others have written to tell me that their father or uncle or they themselves used to type these symbols, or something close to them, in private letters (or, in one case, on punch cards) long before 1982.\'a0 I haven\'92t (yet) seen any hard evidence of this, but I have no reason to doubt their accounts.\'a0 It\'92s a simple and obvious idea after all, and the independent invention of this idea by multiple people would not be implausible.\
\'a0\
So, the smiley idea may have appeared and disappeared a few times before my 1982 post.\'a0 I probably was not the first person ever to type these three letters in sequence, perhaps even with the meaning of \'93I\'92m just kidding\'94 and perhaps even online.\'a0 But I do believe that my 1982 suggestion was the one that finally took hold, spread around the world, and spawned thousands of variations.\'a0 My colleagues and I have been able to watch the idea spread out through the world\'92s computer networks from that original post.\
\'a0\
Let me close with a quote from an interview with Vladimir Nabokov, author of Lolita and other modern classics (thanks to Eli Brandt for calling this to my attention):\
\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\ri572\sa0

\i \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Q: How\'a0 do you rank yourself among writers (living) and of
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 the immediate past?
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'a0
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Nabokov: I often think there should exist a special typographical
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 sign\'a0 for\'a0 a\'a0 smile \'96 some sort of concave mark, a supine round
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 bracket, which I would now like\'a0 to\'a0 trace\'a0 in reply\'a0 to your question.
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
}